General
Ethereum
Changelog
Source Code
Ethereum Stackexchange
Language Users Chat
Compiler Developers Chat
Solidity Integrations
Generic:

EthFiddle
Solidity IDE in the Browser. Write and share your Solidity code. Uses server-side components.
Remix
Browser-based IDE with integrated compiler and Solidity runtime environment without server-side components.
Solhint
Solidity linter that provides security, style guide and best practice rules for smart contract validation.
Solidity IDE
Browser-based IDE with integrated compiler, Ganache and local file system support.
Ethlint
Linter to identify and fix style and security issues in Solidity.
Superblocks Lab
Browser-based IDE. Built-in browser-based VM and Metamask integration (one click deployment to Testnet/Mainnet).
Atom:

Etheratom
Plugin for the Atom editor that features syntax highlighting, compilation and a runtime environment (Backend node & VM compatible).
Atom Solidity Linter
Plugin for the Atom editor that provides Solidity linting.
Atom Solium Linter
Configurable Solidity linter for Atom using Solium (now Ethlint) as a base.
Eclipse:

YAKINDU Solidity Tools
Eclipse based IDE. Features context sensitive code completion and help, code navigation, syntax coloring, built in compiler, quick fixes and templates.
Emacs:

Emacs Solidity
Plugin for the Emacs editor providing syntax highlighting and compilation error reporting.
IntelliJ:

IntelliJ IDEA plugin
Solidity plugin for IntelliJ IDEA (and all other JetBrains IDEs)
Sublime:

Package for SublimeText - Solidity language syntax
Solidity syntax highlighting for SublimeText editor.
Vim:

Vim Solidity
Plugin for the Vim editor providing syntax highlighting.
Vim Syntastic
Plugin for the Vim editor providing compile checking.
Visual Studio Code:

Visual Studio Code extension
Solidity plugin for Microsoft Visual Studio Code that includes syntax highlighting and the Solidity compiler.
Solidity Tools
ABI to Solidity interface converter
A script for generating contract interfaces from the ABI of a smart contract.
Dapp
Build tool, package manager, and deployment assistant for Solidity.
Doxity
Documentation Generator for Solidity.
evmdis
EVM Disassembler that performs static analysis on the bytecode to provide a higher level of abstraction than raw EVM operations.
EVM Lab
Rich tool package to interact with the EVM. Includes a VM, Etherchain API, and a trace-viewer with gas cost display.
leafleth
A documentation generator for Solidity smart-contracts.
PIET
A tool to develop, audit and use Solidity smart contracts through a simple graphical interface.
solc-select
A script to quickly switch between Solidity compiler versions.
Solidity prettier plugin
A Prettier Plugin for Solidity.
Solidity REPL
Try Solidity instantly with a command-line Solidity console.
solgraph
Visualize Solidity control flow and highlight potential security vulnerabilities.
Securify
Fully automated online static analyzer for smart contracts, providing a security report based on vulnerability patterns.
Sūrya
Utility tool for smart contract systems, offering a number of visual outputs and information about the contracts’ structure. Also supports querying the function call graph.
Universal Mutator
A tool for mutation generation, with configurable rules and support for Solidity and Vyper.
Third-Party Solidity Parsers and Grammars
Solidity Parser for JavaScript
A Solidity parser for JS built on top of a robust ANTLR4 grammar.
